[Music]
welcome everyone to this week's IPL
desync meeting
it's October 21st 2019 and as every week
we yeah discuss any things the IPL d15
has and we first started yeah it's from
us and then going through any urgent
items this time I even have an agenda
item and so I start with myself so last
week and so I'm still working on making
surly to support eggs
um it's I don't know if it's my brain or
not but like it's a constantly forget
house for the works and basically like
every day every day I try to remember
how it works and then I caught something
and then no this doesn't work and then
oh it doesn't work and then I have no
idea like yeah if it's just complicated
or if it's me I have no idea but I think
I'm getting closer still and yeah
besides that also like on my so it's not
IP related but I also work when I do
[ __ ] work I do
rust stuff so I'm getting better there
on foreign if I if if I eyes for him
function so if anyone has something
within this regards in rust feel free to
ping me and ask me for help I think I
feel good understanding also like so I'm
mostly work on the error handling so if
you yeah
any questions what does rust need dental
sorry
what does rust need it if I fall I
thought it was the other way around
I thought go was not around so basically
the yes so basic go calls
trust and so we exposed an advice and
and the problem is that later you don't
have all those safety cover keys anymore
so for example if brass panics it just
crashes and it's gone and you don't want
to do it so you want to return a proper
arrow and such things so it's this way
again
cool next is Eric so I've had a long
week again I'm I'm still in the areas
that are not very far from where I've
been in the last couple of weeks I've
been doing lots and lots of research
spokes into the performance that we can
expect from the code that is created by
the code generation in go and and this
is just a really deep topic and it's
very difficult to iterate on because it
touches everything at once I know a
couple of things that are useful as
high-level guidance from the previous
experience with our reef library which
does a bunch of serialization and go
through some of our projects right now
and the main thing that I know from that
experience is that in making things
perform well the count of memory
allocations not to size but the instance
count of memory allocations is going to
be one of the heaviest hitting things in
holistic performance overall I also know
from the hard way that redesigning
things later
to avoid this is tricky though it's I've
been trying to front load a lot of those
efforts I don't know if this is entirely
wise because it turns out as I try to do
this I keep having to implement
surprisingly large amounts of the system
in order to get the holistic picture if
I try to just optimize or build
benchmarks for like one set of methods
invariably the benchmarks get extremely
misleading because I'll find out that oh
the inliner
was able to work on an example this size
and the inliner enabled like 20 other
compiler optimization very special and I
scale it up but not about world and
trying to get to the truth from the
bottom of these things is just very very
fun so trying to figure out where to get
rid of these memory allocations and how
to design around that it's also
entangled with the maybe API design
questions from previous weeks so that's
fun and I think at this point the way
forward is going to involve me just
trying to build a table of figure out
what the worst case is and then figure
out which cases are better and great
trade-offs I have yet to find a single
solution space that is optimal in all
cases it's just going to involve choices
some of the worst case scenarios would
involve well having a memory allocation
per node and per node builder in the
entire tree and that would be survivable
but it would not be fat there's some
optimizations that I can make to
amortize like move those down into one
very consistently what the trade-off is
then the number of bytes taken goes up
and because of like specific details of
the way the GC and they keep work in the
go runtime it turns out that those
additional bytes will then get held on
to you for the lifetime of know rather
than just the note builder maybe lots of
applications will be able to ignore this
but it's not a free trade so yeah long
story short that's turning out really
really hard
I might have to beg for another pair of
eyes to like help me tiebreak and make
sure I'm not seeing any faces there yep
that's about it and anecdotally for
saying it's hard I did a completely
different implementation of the way
structure code
today or this last week rather so it
uses no pointers instead of lots of
pointers like the previous generation I
thought this would be better it actually
got slightly slower and took the same
number of allocations overall for other
holistic reasons mm-hmm it's been a long
week
in report things and I have one
commenting in regards to to optimizing
go stuff so just be careful not to
optimize that much for the coat average
collective because from like past
experience from other things I've worked
with is that it changed in every release
and they basically ended up with needed
to compile the whole system with three
different versions of code because they
they worked around so much around
certain things that in the new version
it didn't work anymore so perhaps so I
guess my takeaways perhaps tested with
old ago versions because you can test
with newer versions obviously but just
like big just like once we have
benchmarks just run with an older code
version to see if it's like kind of
matches or if it's like completely
screwed because yeah that's just um yeah
but I've only heard stories about it so
I was involved myself but I heard
stories but it was yeah a huge panes
yeah so far historically and most of my
surprises have been when things got
better and made some previous design
choice look ridiculous in retrospect
because there was weirdly superior
solution instead of a series of traits
but uh yeah it was the other way round
so yeah just give us a mic okay cool um
who's next on the list is rod so I had a
week that was not dissimilar sounding to
Eric's but certainly not as intense and
serious I spent most my we can go on the
go schema library I'm spending a lot of
time on it and I'm sure it'll pay off
eventually it's not connected to a
purely prime yet I'm hoping to move it
towards that so that we have a bridge
between the two so
that you can read schemers even do
something do Co join with them and it's
getting into shape I think and it's you
it that the tests are all now in sync as
well between the two and what I spent
the week doing was one of those
maneuvers like Eric's talking about
where you'd you can't do it in small
pieces you have to do all of it
and so I refactored the data structures
that hold the schemers to get rid of the
the go maps which just made me so angry
and so there's basically no maps in in
the ghost schema library now it's all
lists and then custom Jason encoding
methods to get them back into maps for
Jason and so now everything's ordered it
retains orders and so now I can do the
full test cycle where I'm reading a
schemer testing the JSON version and
then turning it back into a schemer
again and I can pair I can compare the
raw schema text without worrying about
the types jumping around between runs
and I mean it just feels nice though
just to have that stability and they get
rid of the but then I started doing some
extra experimentation with some other
things then just flamed out in anger
part of it was discovering that there's
no way in go to read Jason and know what
the order of the Jason Paz was and what
the order for things are they came in
unless you write a custom Jason puzzle
and which we had great which is why what
this is one of the reasons that that
reforms library I alluded to as being a
source of many hard lessons Ramon yeah
it may be relevant we use a 1-up JSON
parser in JavaScript as well because we
have to order the keys yeah but at least
you can get to the underlying
information I could go just read a
thread good brother you you could parse
everything with with any parser but for
encoding we write so I read a thread
that made me rage and was finally the go
some of the go authors and somebody was
saying I'd like I'd really like to be
able to get to the ordering of Jason
paths and they were like no what's the
use case
tell us use case like well I want to do
this no that's not good enough use case
no no write your own and I gotta get
that I get the the inclination towards
like they want to keep it simple and
approachable but it's just this like I
don't know it's an arrogance or
something that just really annoyed me
was like I have a use case I have a use
case and you're telling me I they
basically said no you need to [ __ ] the
call over and do it yourself
anyway it makes you feel like if that
person who was asking worked at Google
it would just happen
[Laughter]
apparently there are some extensions
slated as a to do for the core Jason
encoding library to get to be had just
some hooks to get into the process but
anyway I just came away with a bad taste
at the end of the week and to top of all
I was talking with a friend who spent a
bit of time we can go as well and we
ended up having the same things to rage
a bit but like I I'm not gonna say that
this is this is my final assessment of
go because I fully understand that I'm
I'm at that stage yeah we're yet we're
well I don't have the full sympathy for
the language and so things like like I
want to do much more object-oriented
style like I wanted to use inheritance
properly don't doesn't want you to do
that and so you have to think
differently and so totally not over that
hump of thinking like a go programmer
and so my rage is more about eat not
working the way I wanted to
rather than me thinking the way it wants
me to so anyway it's it's a positive
experience because it's all learning and
everything so just a bit of Rage that's
me
thanks Michael your update okay yeah so
last week at the very end of the week I
got all of the jsut next-best stopped
working and I've been my cranking on for
a few months now so this is like you can
basically encode directories files and
the data and we have the full sort of
like big dag possibilities with the data
side of it the data side ended up being
sort of so complicated but also fairly
reusable and a pretty generic problem so
I broke that into its own spec and that
was sent to the specs repo called the
data I'm just calling it data for now
I'm not tied to any of the names so if
anybody has drawn about the names just
change them I change them I change them
so much during development and I'm
actually like this unhappy with all of
them and so I'm like a total pushover
it's like the first person who decides
that those names should be just gonna
win but the the underlying architecture
is really nice because it means that we
are not we're no longer sort of taking a
layout and tying it to like in actual
like read code so you can write
basically readers for three advanced
layouts and then any changes that we
want to make to how the dag is actually
constructed in the future and change the
algorithms and do flat or trickle beg or
whatever the hell people want to do or
like mutations over time where you you
may have like a perfectly flat bag and
then you mutate it a little bit stuff
like that all of that will just work
with the same reader so that's really
nice that means that we don't have to go
and update the readers in every
implementation because somebody decided
to encode it slightly differently with a
different algorithm um and of course you
can still sort of like encode the name
of the algorithm that you use and stuff
like that's we can try to be compatible
between different rebuilds the same data
anyway so that works that was a real
pain as a result the eye peeled the
image in library is pretty close to
finished um
in terms of the feature being completely
future complete um the architecture is
really nice and stable now after the
rewrite
so I'm really happy with that aspect of
it I feel like I'm getting a much better
idea now too of how people will consume
advanced layouts in the future via
different programming environments so
there's a lot to learn there like I
think that the thing that you end up
exporting from your library is the types
and we're not really and like what's
gonna happen is that if you have a
library for generating an API are doing
code gen then people will use that
library to create some types and then
hand them to somebody else who uses
those types in their schema so you're
going to end up with the schemas that
refer to types that aren't in the schema
but they need to be there before it
could actually generate an API is
actually because and you don't really
have like dependent schemas because they
are dependent on the code and the
generator you end up using if that makes
sense
at the moment that you inject code into
this you can't really get away with just
dependent schemas you end up like
needing the dependent code anyway and so
if you're consuming the code you might
as well just consume their types and
then your library is for generating new
api's can just consume other types that
you would generate previously right does
that make sense I'd really like to see
Eric into this point of experimenting
with letting go and seeing what lessons
overlap there but it seems like it's a
bit of a distance away yeah I mean you
know it'll be nice to see sort of like
where the two end up landing cuz they're
definitely gonna be some big differences
but I think that was like one takeaway
that I had where I don't I don't need a
way to import schemas from somewhere
else like that's actually not useful
because I have to get the code anyway
and like that's gonna be super dependent
on the Pergamon language that you're
using and and if somebody writes a
different API generation library than
mine then they're gonna have a different
way to share the types and import the
code so yeah anyway but eventually all
of that will also be in a separate
module so all the data stuff will be in
a separate module so anyway this is
quite nice I think that this for the
next few weeks I'll probably write more
tests and use what I have and
the Phoenix of that stuff for a small
project in order to kind of put it
through the paces before I bug the ipfs
folks about it because it's a bit ahead
of schedule right now and then I'll go
and write the sum of the em FS
primitives on top I want to handle a lot
of these like I'm not gonna implement
the em FS API from ipfs but there's a
lot of like like you need a smart graph
builder in order to handle concurrent
changes to em FS and that is something
that we need to deal with and like a
pretty generic way and I feel P and
figure that stuff out and I have enough
experience with this stuff anyway that I
can just write it and hand that off to
the episode from the time comes so
anyway that was nice um oh another thing
that I did I recognized and this
actually kind of sucks because it's
notice is nice um so in Prior iterations
of UNIX best.i I would hand you like a
generator so you would say like go and
give me this directory and we get back
in generator and be all these blocks and
then at the very end you would get the
root block and so it was a really clean
generator that just always healed and
blocks that doesn't work anymore
because what you are the root note of
what you create isn't necessarily a
distinct block so what you end up
creating is a generator that you'll
block until it yields the root node and
then it actually gives you back
essentially the the instantiated type
from the schema gen but it could it
could be the encoded version of that if
we wanted to write but but effectively
like you need actually something that
you can potentially inline into
something else so that really changed
how long the EP eyes looked like they
yield objects now that's a block or root
and it looks a lot more like other more
advanced generators that have like type
variations in them but that was an
interesting thing to learn in terms of
like how we can structure things and not
always just to clean like hey just
always give me blocks because in to some
extent I'm saying okay you figure out
where the block boundaries are in the
sub deck but then you need to give me
back a root node that I can just inline
into something because it's not
necessarily going to be a distinct block
so that was also an interesting thing
that I learned doing that
and then I think that's about it
yeah yeah there's a few things that
aren't in schema didn't cuz I'm just not
using them and those only to be added
like renames aren't supported yet some
of the representations on supported
magazine yet but there's there's places
for them to go in it was architected
sort of understanding that those would
God I just haven't done that work to put
them in now yeah and that's that's about
it for me Michael you have three
different looking coding well by
encoding things going on they've got I
think it's just playing bytes but Lister
than a nested but list so it's
technically de Bourgh because it's an
inline bytes link to a raw block by it's
a list of links which is an inline list
not a linked list and then there's any
kind of nested bag beyond that anything
that is more complicated in that and
then that more complicated thing the the
leaves that you end up pointing to are
pointers back to that Union so within
that big mess today you could have you
know just a list of bytes it's simpler
right
do you have that please heuristics on
one what would make different Lance like
I'm saying yeah this should be
flexibility should do it in different
ways but is it is that too much
flexibility so it was too much
flexibility until I figured out this
recursive Union thing and that really
simplifies it actually because once you
wrap that in an advanced layout you just
have this recursive read call that
happens through the entire stack and
it's actually quite simple and and it it
looks exactly how it would look no
matter what layout algorithm you would
end up using so if you just have one
then this is actually kind of ideal and
if you have other algorithms you can
just plug them in but yeah I mean we
have some examples from ipfs where they
have the flat neg in the turtle bag
which with graphs think we may not care
about it
but you still have the problem of I
create a flat dag or some kind of
balance tag that I want and then I'm
mutated like that happens actually all
the time like there's there's a call and
ipfs call right where you just write a
couple bites in there and so what you
end up doing is traversing into it and
then just mutating those those few last
little bits and so if you're if you're
if you're reading shinned assume the
layout rather than sorry assume the
layout algorithm rather than assume the
sort of type that they're bound to you
end up with this problem where every
layout has to have a different read
method hmm but if you just say no
layouts just consume these same types
that the types I believe methods then
you don't need to do that and you can
you can mutate you can make like really
discreet mutations and depending on how
big those mutations are they might you
know create a another huge section of
the dag with another nested bag or they
might just like you know you take one of
the lists and pop off a few things or
point one in the minute piece or
whatever yeah and then once once you get
into optimizing for different types of
mutations you're gonna end up with a lot
of different layout of them I think
that's the thing that's really going to
explode them like the current layer
algorithms are sort of hacks around the
fact that we only had that swap and then
it was really expensive to do these
round trips into sub dag portions but I
think that what you look at okay I have
a file that I'm only going to append to
and I expects to append to it often that
is just gonna have you're gonna want a
different layout I think I'm gonna want
to change how how you lay out the data
to really efficiently do those rights
and to minimize the garbage that you
create and we don't want to have the the
reader get swapped out because you had
that different layout of them
all right I have one internal item which
is only about the time of this meeting
because like in Europe the daylight
saving time ends soon but it seems to me
that so for me personally it would be
great if we would just keep the UTC time
because then it would be one hour
earlier for me and probably in the US as
well but it's in the middle of the day
so I I don't care I don't mind it being
an hour earlier it's just that I don't
know what happens then when daylight DST
is gonna end here too so they see one
week afterwards so basically when you're
daylight saving time ends it will be one
hour earlier fee and it already has
changed so in in distributed meanings
that done like the span the globe like
this it just does end up being easier
just pinning to UTC so there's no
argument yes there's no preferences yeah
yeah let's just pin it and then some of
my other meetings I'll probably realize
we're not pinned and I'll have to change
them but yeah if we can just alter the
existing meeting to be in UTC rather
than on the particular time zone let's
just do that yeah yeah okay and then I
think that means you need to change it
to Reykjavik time no it's already know
it is already you can see so i it is pin
to UTC and also on well yeah you can do
it somehow
it took a while but in the me so it
should be fine and if not so so I'm I
will take care of it for the next time
zone changes within the next two weeks
that we stay at the same UTC time it
gets better for you there doesn't it
okay you go early I think it's better
yeah so it's yo Lea so it's yeah so
basically winter so our like the
European winter so October to March is
easier for Europe Australian yeah it's
easier first camera and then we yeah cuz
we go to us together and then we go to
our [ __ ] time zone and then just just
a general note um I'm here next week but
the week after that I'm just out the
whole week and oh yeah another thing so
the week after the week that I'm back
the week before lab week is like this
planning week that they're doing and so
I'll have a template there's a template
I'm gonna work through it and try to
figure out what our plan for 2020 is and
then I'll share that sometimes this week
with everybody and I just need you to
get in your feedback in the next few
weeks so that I can finalize it slightly
but it's gonna be pretty simple it's
basically gonna say like look we we are
working on getting things to a point
where we get adopted in our direct
dependencies inside of protocol and so
ipfs in file coin and then you know we
will learn from that and then from there
grow our dependence outside of Philips
but I'm not gonna lock us into a
particular time frame because we need to
have the the ability to learn and
integrate we'll see how that goes cool
off my anything else cool then I close
the meeting goodbye everyone and
[Music]